### Voltage Controlled bar Graph

This is a project I wanted to start for some time. My brother-in-law teaches
4th grade and asked me to help him put together a project to teach his students
the concepts of electricity. We've procured a generator that attaches to a
stationary bicycle to generate current when pedaled. He would like to me create
a bar graph from LEDs and/or a GUI the increases in proportion to the current
generated by student pedaling the bicycle.
Using the Analog to Digital converter built into the Arduino Uno micro controller,
I will map the the max current generated to a digital value at a 10 bit (2^10)
resolution. With 1023 for the highest voltage and 0 for no voltage.
Since the voltage output by DC motor we will be using as a generator will likely
exceed the limit for the the Arduino's analog in pins I will use Zener diode
(with the anode and cathode reversed) as a voltage regulator. I will use Ohm's
law to calculate the need resister value to limit the voltage to 5 volts to
be read on an Arduino analog input pin. The formula is as follows:

### R = Volts/Current

*with the resistance measured in Ohms and the current is measured in the max
amount Amps to flow through this part of the circuit.

With the desired max voltage of 5v @ 20 milliAmps of current (.020 Amps).

*R = 5/.02

Therefore, a resistor with ~ 250 Ohm value and a .1 watt rating should be
sufficient.

Since I will be using at least 8 LEDs for the bar and the Arduino Uno only has
4 output pins I will need to use a shift register IC so that only one Arduino
is needed.

In addition, to the bar graph I may also make a graphical interface by send
the readings to a computer via Serial Input and then representing those values
graphically using Processing, D3 or React to render the graphical data.

This is just a basic outline and I may add to this README.md with more exact
values once that data is obtained. Also, I will try to provide schematics,
photos and diagrams of the the hardware used. More to come! 
